PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Website for ______________
DELIVERABLES
Design
This project will include the creation of a new layout and design for the website.  Initial discussions will guide the design process to make sure that the design incorporates the look and feel of the organization while enhancing usability.
Process
To start, we will design the home page.  This proposal includes a single concept, with two variations.  The client may select one variation and provide design feedback through two rounds of revisions.
Once the home page is designed, we will comp all of the other key pages so that you know exactly what they will look like. This design phase includes one round of revisions and all feedback should be sent as a single unit to ensure that the design feels like a unified whole.
Website Development
The website will be built on Wordpress using a custom-built theme.  All pre-built features of Wordpress will be included unless otherwise specified.  Major features that are not part of Wordpress are listed in the “Features” section below.
All pages will be mobile-friendly.  This means that the page can be viewed easily on any device.  The layout of the page will change based on the width of the device.  All hover-based navigation is removed on mobile devices and is replaced with a touch-based interface.
Support
Website support is included for limited time periods depending on the need.  Support that falls outside of the included provisions below will be billed at the hourly rate.
Hourly Rate
The hourly rate for this project is $125/hour.
Bugs & Errors
The site is guaranteed to be bug and error free for one year.  Any error with the site that occurs within the first year from launch will be fixed free of charge.  Errors that occur due to improper use of the site are not covered.
Documentation
Documentation for this project will be included for custom features.  Any feature that is part of the default behavior for Wordpress will not be included.  Creating documentation for existing features would inflate the price and comprehensive documentation is already available.
Deployment
The final step with any website is to take it live.  In general, this is a fairly straightforward process, but it often involves communication between the client and the developer.  Part of the deliverable will be reasonable assistance, instructions and support to take the website live.  
Features
This website does not include any custom features.  
Ongoing Costs
Plugins
In many cases the most reliable and cost-effective way to create a website feature is to use a commercially available plugin.  These plugins are small pieces of software and are created by software companies.  Most of these companies offer ongoing support and updates for their plugins for one year as part of the purchase price.  After one year, the plugin will continue to work as it always did, but it will no longer receive updates, and access to support from the software company will be limited or unavailable.  To continue receiving support and updates from the software company, they sell annual support plans that range from 30% to 100% of the purchase price (purchase price is normally $30-$70).  These support plans are optional.  However, for business critical features of the website, it may be worth the money to pay for the support plan.  The decision to buy a support plan can be made on a case by case basis.
All decisions about whether to use a commercially available plugin and the options/cost associated will be cleared with the client before purchase.
NOTE: The initial cost of any plugins is included in the price of the proposal.
Hosting
Hosting is available for $50/month and includes on-site and off-site backups, plugin updates as well as disaster recovery services.  Please note that not all plugins should be updated whenever there is an update available, so this process is not automated.  Website admins may see plugins with updates available from time to time.  
You do not have to host your website with me to have me build your website.  I host website for my clients as a way to provide a more comprehensive offering.  I do not host websites that I did not build.
EXCLUSIONS
Search Engine Optimization
All websites should be easily read and indexed by a search engine.  To do this, the internal structure of the website needs to conform to a specific set of criteria set out by search engines.  This website will conform to those standards.  This is the heart of Search Engine Optimization (SEO).  
However, many people use SEO to mean the intentional adjustment of website content to increase the ranking of a website on search engine results pages (SERPs).  This is something that is largely out of the realm of control of the website developer.  So, while the site will be built to be easily indexed by search engines, there is no guarantee made of any specific search engine ranking.
Support for Outdated Browsers
This exclusion scares a lot of people because it feels like an escape clause where we don’t have to address browser-specific bugs.  That is not the case.  This exclusion is almost exclusively for Internet Explorer.  Microsoft itself stopped supporting IE 10 in 2016.
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/windows/end-of-ie-support 
The primary reason for this exclusion is because building websites that maintain backwards compatibility limits the options available.  In short, you can’t make something very good if it has to work with outdated technology.
Content Updates
Content updates will be made by the client unless a separate arrangement is created to cover this service.
SSL Certificate
All modern websites should be encrypted.  To encrypt traffic, the site needs an SSL certificate.  The cost for a certificate can range from free, to thousands of dollars.  Many hosting companies have started including an SSL certificate as part of even basic hosting packages.  The right SSL certificate varies from site to site but, for most websites, a free certificate is just fine.
NOTE: A paid SSL certificate does not provide “stronger” encryption than a free certificate.  There are several reasons that a paid certificate costs money.  They are not a scam, but a website needs to have very specific business needs in order for those costs to be justified.
Notes
No notes for this proposal.
CLIENT NAME OR PROJECT NAME
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL / ESTIMATE / PROPOSAL



